in this lesson we're going to look at
the benefits and usage of the azure iot
services
if we look back to those skills that are
being assessed as part of az900 we're
now going into this new set of
objectives all about this describe core
solutions and management tools
and then this particular set of
objectives and skills around describe
core solutions available in azure
now this particular lesson we're going
to go ahead and explore the ones around
internet of things
but then over subsequent lessons we'll
look at things about big data machine
learning serverless compute and then
devops so this is our focus for the next
set of lessons
so what is internet of things
today
anything that has a button or a screen
has some kind of micro controller units
we have some kind of device
it could be very very simple and it has
some
micro controller unit within there
now many of them are not connected to
the internet and so they're configured
with a certain set of capabilities they
have a certain set of protections maybe
for what we know about today
but they can't be updated so new threats
there's no way to give them additional
protection they can't get new skills or
new capabilities
the internet of things is about the idea
that we're then going to light up these
things
so they can actually connect
to
some cloud-based service
this is going to enable them also to
talk to each other where i have lots of
devices but also go ahead and actually
talk to some cloud service
this is both the idea of sending
information this is often things like
telemetry but also
there's the idea that i can send for
example commands
so i could send things like command and
control
to these devices i could update firmware
i could say perform these actions on
your unit so i think a lot about
telemetry going up to the cloud but it
could be other things
and they've been able to send commands
back the benefit here is if there's this
ongoing communication
i can update it i can give it new
capabilities i can give it enhanced
protection
but so too there becomes new threats
because now it is connected to the
internet there's a broader attack
surface people can try and use
so i have new sets of requirements i
need to have very good security between
these
i need to secure the communication i
need to authenticate is this really who
they say they are because yes bad things
can happen this way and make it do bad
things
but likewise i could think about sending
false information by pretending to be
this device into whatever that
cloud-based service is
now
this is the focus of internet of things
those various problems that we need to
solve now in the enterprise environment
i can think about huge ranges of devices
that may have sensors for example
and i need to gather that information to
use as part of some service maybe it
performs computations on it maybe it
looks at those various values and uses
things like machine learning to predict
imminent failure i can do
preemptive maintenance to stop there
being a failure
i want to get analysis to gain insight
and it could be thousands or millions of
these sensors
now when i say the idea of sensors and
this is a big focus for the idea of
metrics they can be of huge numbers of
different types that i'm gathering
information on it could gather gps
coordinates it could be gathering
temperature it could be gathering
acceleration
it could be gathering a picture it could
be gathering the amount of light it
could be detecting sound
tilt
the presence of different types of gas
or smoke really anything
can be enabled and i have these sensors
and i want to gather that information
remember also i want to be able to
identify
a particular device out of all those
thousands and millions i want to be able
to authenticate
that particular device in a strong way
and again i want that management
capability sent to a specific device
maybe sent to a whole collection of
device
so we need services
around these internet of things
to enable
all of these different capabilities
and azure has a number of services
around this
now the first of those services
is azure
iot
hub
this is really a foundational service
and as the name implies it's a hub
where internet of things devices can
communicate to
it's all about that idea of device to
cloud
telemetry so i can think device to cloud
but it's also
about enabling the idea of maybe it's a
device
to cloud
upload maybe some file
i want to
gather so i'll say metrics telemetry
there
but it's also about cloud
to
device
i think that whole idea about command
and control
also there's request and i get responses
back to that
so cloud to device hey i want you to
perform this operation perform this
action
the device to cloud is hey i'm giving
you these metrics or i'm uploading this
file or i have some requests and i want
a response back so there's different
types of thing i'll put that kind of
also request
response
as an option now
and what the iot hub is going to do for
us it provides well a these
endpoints that these devices can
actually communicate to
but what it also does is give us that
ability
to uniquely identify
each of the various devices
and what it's actually going to do is
within this service
yes there's that physical device but
what it's going to do is as part of iot
hub
it creates this idea of a device
twin
so a representation
of that device
within iot hub and the benefit there is
in terms of interacting with this
service
my application i write
i interact with this device twin
i can think about well the device twin
captures the metrics about that are
exposed
through this
so i can look at that device twin
but also if i tell it actions i want
performed
so i configure those hey i want you to
go and update your firmware i want you
to go and perform a restart
the next time the physical device checks
in with the iot hub it will see that
there's this action waiting
and it will perform it so it gives me
this great ability in terms of my
application to interact with the devices
without having to actually live be
talking to the physical device iot hub
is responsible for that plumbing
under the covers
and i can focus more on the
functionality i want in my application
and all of this is by the various sdks
that iot hub is going to support so iot
hub is providing all the various flows
required
for this actually to work
it's providing me those various sdk so i
can then write my application and
interact with it
and this is a really good option
if my requirement
is
i just need connectivity to remote
devices
i want to be able to sense
and receive i want to get those signals
i want to get those telemetry so those
various types of metrics i want to be
able to push updates and i want to write
my own solution i want to use the sdk to
write my own solution so i think about
iot hub
when i just need that basic set of
capabilities and basically i'm going to
do my
own
application that is going to communicate
with that sdk so this is where
that is the right solution i just need
something to provide that communication
with the device identifying it and then
give me the representation that i can
then work with via the sdk but i'm going
to write code write my application to
actually do the work
so that's iot hub
the next solution we get
is
azure iot central
so now we have this idea
of iot
central
now i'm drawing it kind of on top of iot
hub because
it uses
iot hub
what we're doing with iot central
is if you think of iot hub you could
almost think as it's kind of a paz
solution
it's giving me that framework the sdks
on which i can write an application
to work with iot
iot central i can actually think as more
of a sas solution
it provides a complete solution because
it's adding functionality on top of iot
hub
so what it gives me is things like
dashboards
out of the box
it has different starter applications
so we do apps as well
based on many different industry
scenarios
it has device templates
for many types of device based on
those types of industry and the device
template would have the various
attributes or things like the metrics i
would expect to actually receive
so it really addresses those common
industry
scenarios
and it helps me get up and running very
very quickly now all of these things
i can still customize
so it's given me a place to start
but i can change it as i need to
and when i think about these device
templates a really nice thing it
actually gives me as well
is simulated devices
so maybe i don't have a device actually
connected yet but it will simulate the
devices that i enable for my application
so i can start testing the things that i
actually do
i can do things like add rules
via a wizard so it's kind of a graphical
experience
and i could create a rule based on some
telemetry some signal from the device is
over a certain value and then go and
perform these various actions so i can
think
signal
condition
action
and those actions are vast
i could think well that could be hey
send an email
it could be send an sms
it might be called a web hook which is
just some restful endpoint
i can call things like azure functions
i could call things like a logic app
remember those serverless solutions and
there's more i can hook into my itsm
system
my ticketing system so if you think
about that i could graphically create a
rule that's maybe hey if i get this
signal maybe it's temperature
and it's refrigerators
if the refrigerator temperature goes
above a certain value i am now
compromising what's in that
refrigeration
it could
trigger
creating a ticket in my itsm so then
someone actually goes and looks at that
and you can see so it's actually got
some nice little demos if we jump over
for a second
this is iot central
and you'll actually notice i mean
there's great videos i recommend you go
and watch this but here's the whole
point
it has this idea of the iot devices
gateway devices iot edge devices
into iot central
that then can hook into many other
things
to then
help me see and visualize the data
but notice all of these industry
standards retail energy government
health care
i could pick one of these hey i'll get
started in retail
well that's showing me some of the very
common types of applications i may have
and it can then go and create that
application for me with the
dashboards with the devices and it's all
this gui based
if i actually go and look at the iot
central demo it has that idea of hey the
jump start
then it has hey all these different
types of devices that i can say to
connect to it and again it can simulate
those for my testing
it then has this nice management set of
dashboards and it has roles so depending
on the role i have i would see different
things in these dashboards
scale is really to any level i can
create these hierarchies to break up how
i see these things
again you can extend we have all those
different connectors
and then you can monetize as required
so the key point here is
if we think of iot hub was hey i want to
write my own app and i just need
something to work with the devices
well iot central
is where i want something
out of the box
then this is the right solution i don't
want to write a bunch of code i don't
want to interface with an sdk i want to
be able to get up and running super
quickly with pre-built dashboards and
pre-built
solutions for my industry that's where i
would go and use the iot central
now i talked about at the start
well there's this idea of how you have
this micro controller unit
well there's a certain element of trust
and security in the hardware
there's the idea that there's going to
be an operating system here
and then a way to assure the security
and integrity of it that it's not been
compromised in some way
and so
if i have a scenario
where
it's really important to ensure the
security of my ot devices
if it's my wife's coffee machine if it
got hacked hey it might ruin a cup of
coffee not the end of the world
but if this is a sensor on a medical
device if this is a sensor on some
industry that's detecting something and
from a safety perspective if it's
something to do with maybe financial
systems i need to really make sure that
the integrity and security
of that complete end to end
communication
and so that solution when we think about
end to end
is this azure sphere
and it is focused again on that end to
end
security
that's its job
and it's really built up of
three different components
so we talked about this microcontroller
unit what we actually get with azure
sphere there is an azure sphere
micro controller unit
oh
let's just change that let's just go
backwards for a sec
let's try and write two words at once
so
if we go back and we do the idea of
azure
sphere
microcontroller unit so azure actually
go and license the technology to various
providers who can then build these micro
control units there are various starter
kits and these then you get these azure
certified micro controller units so
that's kind of part one
is this azure sphere microcontroller
unit then you have the operating system
so the next part of azure sphere is
actually this linux
based
os
that is a customized kernel but once
again microsoft are providing it to the
various manufacturers
they are responsible for all the
updating and maintenance of this kernel
and then what we also get for the third
part
is this idea of a security service
you'll hear this term
as3
it's as3 because there's three s's the
azure sphere security service
so the azure sphere security service is
all about making sure there's not been a
compromise
making sure there's not been some
malicious software
for this
identification and authentication with
azure sphere this is cert based
so certificates
we want to use that we don't really want
to use passwords so this azure sphere is
going to use certificates as part of
that authentication
and then once we have this in place
azure can attest to the security
and integrity of this particular device
whether it's talking to other devices or
it is going to talk to other solutions
and then
that's the end to end security
then it would work with maybe something
like iot hub or iot central so this is
all about the security side of that end
to end flow but it's not providing the
services then about hey
working with it and gathering telemetry
and all of that stuff
the azure sphere is really focused on
that end-to-end security so if you have
that requirement where security
is absolutely critical
i must
have the highest level of security and
integrity
azure sphere is going to help provide
that complete end to end with that azure
sphere certified micro controller unit
with that customized linux kernel with
that azure sphere the as3 security
service to ensure there hasn't been any
malicious compromise and help me
actually attest hey yes i'm healthy
and help me authenticate to the service
to make sure no one is impersonating me
so we have those selection of three
services iot hub
hey it's going to handle that
communication the plumbing underneath to
have those flows going
gather the metrics let me send actions
enabled by these device twins but i'm
writing my own app but it's providing
those sdks if i want something out of
the box
or hey iot central gives me that lots of
industry solutions i can get up and
running super quickly click click click
dashboards apps device templates
simulates devices
fully customizable create those nice
little rules for a wizard hey if this
piece of telemetry is this value go and
perform this thing
and then if i care very strongly about
security i can add on azure sphere for
that complete end to end assurance so we
might use combinations azure sphere
would not generally be on its own i'm
going to use one of these with it but
those are the collections of iot
services for azure